# Hello-World
COVID-19 lock down, Re-Opening of Schools- The 'W' model
Due to its vulnerability, the education sector (especially primary and secondary schools) should be re-opened with caution. Reasons for this cannot be over-emphasized. In re-opening, various factors come into play. Strategies must be in place to avoid casualities and contain any eventualities. The social distancing rule is one key practice that must be ensured amongst the pupils and all. How can we achieve this as a number of factors militate against it. these include: over-populated classrooms, assembly calls, sports, recess and so on. Firstly, we should embrace a policy that removes every other activities from the system apart from the teaching (lecture), which is the primary aim.These then compress the total time spent in the school premises by the pupils, which automatically reduces the chance of a 'case' by half. This opens up the system to sessioning. The time can be broken into sessions (morning and afternoon). The morning session from 8.15a.m to 12noon, and the afternoon session from 12.15p.m to 4pm. Students are assigned to either session, and must comply strictly. This also reduces the population per time by half, hence promotes social distancing practice. Secondly, students should be well sensitised on activities that can lead to the spread of the virus and ways and manners by which to avoid them. As a matter of urgency, the staff room system should be suspended and teachers be made to sit in classes to ensure strict compliance to rules. Thirdly, schools should be compelled to possess kits for their staff and test instruments such as pyrometer be put in place. Also every students should be monitored closely in order for promptly determine when anyone develops strange symptom(s). Consequently, due to sudden change from norms, a number of challenges would arise. These include: Pressure on the staff and the system; Pressure on parents as to where to keep their wards after school; Increased running cost for school owners; unavoidable lenghtening of school calender, amongst others. 
